The gas leakage detection and control system using arm microcontroller, and also to present a new system automatically books the cylinder when the gas is about to empty by sending a notification to the gas agency using a GSM module. Nowadays gas leakage has become a major problem in the industrial sector and in residential sector, so it is necessary to have good safety system in such place. So this system detects, monitor and control the leakage of LPG gas using gas sensor and alerts the person by using buzzer and by sending messages, to take the necessary action it automatically switches on the exhaust fan mand sprinkler to decrease the gas concentration in air. GSM
module is used to provide the information to the gas agency to book the cylinder automatically when the weight of the gas cylinder goes below 2 kg

Gas leakages are one of the major reasons behind fires and blast accidents. Here we propose an automated gas detection and accident avoider system. The system automatically detects gas leakages. If the leakage is detected system automatically starts exaust fans. One exaust is used to suck the gas out of the room. While another fan is used to pull in fresh air from outside at the same time sending out an alert message to turn off the gas supply. The system efficiently avoids the chances of any fires or blasts which could have been caused due to gas leakage. We use ARM cortex along with gas sensor to detect cng/lpg gas presence along with 2 fans, buzzing alert and display based circuitry interfaced to Arm cortex to develop this accident avoider system.
